seenrobotics’ Core Values
=========================

Focus on the user and all else will follow.
-------------------------------------------

User-centric design is what makes designs successful in this modern era.
Caring about the end user means having high quality support for
accessibility, top performance, stability, high fidelity and
compatibility with the user’s platform, supporting low-end devices, and
so forth. We respect our users, whoever they are.

Lazy programming
----------------

Write what you need and no more, but when you write it, do it right.
Avoid implementing features you don’t need. You can’t design a feature
without knowing what the constraints are. Implementing features “for
completeness” results in unused code that is expensive to maintain,
learn about, document, test, etc. When you do implement a feature,
implement it the right way. Avoid workarounds. Workarounds merely kick
the problem further down the road, but at a higher cost: someone will
have to relearn the problem, figure out the workaround and how to
dismantle it (and all the places that now use it), and implement the
feature. It’s much better to take longer to fix a problem properly, than
to be the one who fixes everything quickly but in a way that will
require cleaning up later. You may hear team members say “embrace the
`yak shave <http://www.catb.org/jargon/html/Y/yak-shaving.html>`__ !”.
This is an encouragement to take on the larger effort necessary to
perform a proper fix for a problem rather than just applying a band-aid.
